# Hotel-Managemet-System
A full project of Hotel Management System

This hotel management system is developed for hotels those are using a manual system to handle hotel processes. There are three main users in hotel management system, administrator, Manager and Receptionist. Administrator can maintain daily updates in the hotel records. This system will automate the major operations of the hotel. Administrator can access to all system functionalities without any restrictions. Administrator is must be an authorized user. He can further change the password. There is the facility for password recovery, logout etc. Manager can access to all system functionalities with limited restrictions. Receptionist can only access to the Reservation Management section. The main aim of the entire activity is to automate the process of day to day activities of Hotel.
The Reservation System is to keep track in room and hall reservation and check availability. Using this system user can check which room is reserved and which room is available. He can reserve room from reservation module. The Room Management System is for manage all room types room services. Room management module help user to keep track of all information of hotel room. He can check room laundry service, food service and sweeping service from this module. The Inventory Control System will keep track in all inventories of the hotel and guest details will handled by guest management. Administration department will monitor the all. the main of developing this system is to computerize all the activity of the hotel like Admission of a New Customer, Assign a room according to customer’s demand, checkout of a customer and releasing the room and finally compute the bill etc. Using this system you can manage check in and check out process easily. At check in, you can easily check the availability of rooms in the hotel. And at check out you can easily generate the total bill. This project are working very fast and efficient to customer manage there room from anywhere.  

1. About Project:- 
The Hotel Management System are developed by using object oriented programming language. This hotel management system is developed for hotels those are using a manual system to handle hotel processes. There are three main users in hotel management system, administrator, Manager and Receptionist. Administrator can maintain daily updates in the hotel records. This system will automate the major operations of the hotel. Administrator can access to all system functionalities without any restrictions. Administrator is must be an authorized user.

2. Motivation:-
The hotel management system provides the quality service to the end user. This project aims at creating on Hotel Management System which can be used by Admin and Customers. The admin to advise/publish the availability of rooms in different hotels and customers are checking the availability of room in required hotel. Customers should be able to know the availability of the rooms on a particular date to reserve in hotel. They should be able to reserve the available rooms according to their need in advance. To make their stay comfortable. The Admin hands the booking information of customers. The users can register and log into the system. The administrator will know the details of reservation and daily income.
3. Objective of Project:-
The main objective of the entire activity is to automate the process of day to day activities of Hotel. Using this system you can manage room activities and keep track of admission of a New Customer. Using this system you can check rooms according to customer’s need and can assign easily room to customer. Checkout of a customer and updating the releasing room information in the system is very easy. When user do checkout system will generate final bill after calculating all the bills. User can also check online, all the packages available. He can also book rooms online. He can also cancel booked room online. Hotel management can also check the list of Regular customers and feedback of the hotel’s customer.
4. Real Life Application Example:-
	Cloudbeds:- Cloudbeds serves as an all-in-one hotel management system that can also connect your property to hundreds of channels (such as Booking.com and Orbitz) with real-time, two-way integration.
	Hotelogix:- Hotelogix was developed specifically for small and midsize hotels, and is used by 1.5million+ hotels worldwide. This solution launched in 2009 and now boasts customers in more than 100 countries.
	innRoad:- innRoad is a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) based hotel management system designed to encompass the needs of hospitality businesses of all sizes.
	eZee Technosys:- eZee Technosys provides a turnkey solution to your hotel management problems. With a single click, you can manage all the domains of hospitality management, which range from hotel reservations to front desk billing and assistance; laundry services to housekeeping facilities, and many other tasks of the similar sorts.
	WebRezPro:- WebRezPro is a cloud-based property management solution designed specifically for the hospitality and hotel industry.

